#summary Documents all the changes that were made to every version of the library
#labels Featured

= 0.7.2 =
_February 24, 2013_

 * Renamed the marshal methods in the `VCardType` class to better reflect their format (e.g. renamed "unmarshalValue" to "unmarshalText").
 * Fixed a bug in how "quoted-printable" property values are parsed: values that have empty lines at the end of them are now parsed correctly (see [https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups=#!topic/ez-vcard-discuss/IZgLDVlofGE this discussion])
 * Added `KIND:device` ([http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6869 RFC 6869]).
 * Changed how the `SORT-AS` parameter works in the `OrganizationType` and `StructuredNameType` classes.
 * Major fixes/additions to parameter values in plain-text vCards:
  * Added support for circumflex accent encoding ([http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6868 RFC 6868]).
  * Certain invalid characters are now removed completely from each parameter value on marshal.  A warning is logged if the parameter gets modified in any way.  These characters are:
   * ASCII control characters
   * The following characters in 2.1 vCards: `,` `.` `:` `=` `[` `]`
  * Other invalid characters are now replaced with another character.  A warning is logged if the parameter gets modified in any way.  These characters are:
   * Double quotes in 3.0/4.0 vCards are replaced with single quotes (before, they were escaped with backslashes, which is not part of the standard).
   * Newlines in 2.1/3.0 vCards are replaced with spaces (before, they were escaped with backslashes, which is not part of the standard).  Newlines continue to be escaped with backslashes in 4.0 vCards in order to support the `LABEL` parameter.
  * Fixed how double-quoted, multi-valued parameters in 3.0/4.0 are implemented.  For multi-valued parameters, double quotes were put around all the values instead of each individual value, which is incorrect according to the ABNF.
  * Added the ability to parse multi-valued `TYPE` parameters that are enclosed entirely in double quotes (e.g. `ADR;TYPE="home,work"`).  This is done to account for an error in the 4.0 specs.

= 0.7.1 =
_Januaray 17, 2013_

 * Fixed a critical error in the way an xCard is written.  If the vCard had a PRODID property and "XCardDocument" was configured to add a PRODID property, then it would not write the vCard.

= 0.7.0 =
_January 13, 2013_

 * It's the *Usability Update!*
  * Added a method chaining interface for reading/writing vCards (`Ezvcard` class).
  * Added convenience constructors to `KeyType`, `LogoType`, `PhotoType`, and `SoundType` classes for getting the binary data from a `File` or `InputStream` object (in addition to the original `byte` array).
  * Added convenience constructors to the reader classes so that the vCards can be read from a `String`, `File`, or `InputStream` (in addition the original `Reader`).
  * Added convenience methods to the writer classes so that the vCards can be written to a `String`, `File`, or `OutputStream` (in addition the original `Writer`).
  * Added convenience methods to the `VCard` class to make it easier to add certain basic properties.  For example, to set the `FN` property, a `String` can be passed into the `setFormattedName()` method instead of a `FormattedNameType` object.
  * Added the `Iterable` interface to the `VCard` class, which allows you to iterate over each of the properties in the vCard.
  * Added the `VCard.getAllTypes()` method to get all properties in the vCard.
 * Added support for pretty-printing xCard XML documents.
 * Made xCard parsing more flexible by allowing the xCard XML element to exist anywhere inside the XML document.
 * Fixed namespace-related bugs in the xCard parsing code.
 * Fixed how newlines are encoded in 2.1 vCards: property values that contain newlines are now "quoted-printable" encoded (see Issue 3).
 * Deprecated the `get/setCompatibilityMode()` methods on the readers/writers.
 
= 0.6.0 =
_December 12, 2012_

 * *Added support for the [http://microformats.org/wiki/hcard hCard] microformat* (HTML-encoded vCards).
 * `PRODID` is now used instead of `X-GENERATOR` for marking the vCard as having been generated by ez-vcard.  This is what `PRODID` is supposed to be used for.  Since `PRODID` is not supported in 2.1, `X-PRODID` is used in 2.1 vCards.
 * Fixes to `IMPP` property class:
   ** Added 3.0 to its list of supported versions.  `IMPP` was introduced in a separate specification after the 3.0 specs were released.
   ** Added ICQ and Skype support.
   ** Fixed the scheme string for MSN instant messenger handles.
   ** Added getters for getting the IM protocol (e.g. "aim") and handle (e.g. "johndoe@aol.com").
 * Removed 2.1 from `NICKNAME`'s list of supported versions.  This property is not defined in the 2.1 specs.
 * Fixed a typo in the name of the `CALADRURI` property.
 * When unescaping an escaped newline in a plain text vCard, the local system's newline sequence is now used instead of "\r\n".
 * `GEO` coordinate values are now rounded to 6 decimals instead of 4 when marshalling (see Issue 2).
 * Added `RevisionType.now()` helper constructor.  It generates a `REV` property whose value is the current time.
 * Renamed `XCardMarshaller` to `XCardDocument`.

= 0.5.0 =
_November 8, 2012_

 * Marshalling classes (`VCardReader`, `VCardWriter`, `XCardReader`, `XCardMarshaller`) no longer throw a checked `VCardException`.
 * ORG-DIRECTORY type class was missing the `getSupportedVersions()` method.
 * Added the ability to specify the XML element name of extended types (xCard).
 * Improved the performance of the marshaller classes.  The same `List` object is now used for collecting the marshalling warnings of each vCard type (previously, a new `List` object was created for every vCard type).
 * Refactored the way in which AGENT is marshalled to make the marshalling of embedded vCards more generic.  An `EmbeddedVCardException` is now thrown from the `AgentType` class, which the marshaller catches and then uses to marshal/unmarshal the embedded vCard.
 * Renamed `AgentType.get/setVcard()` to `AgentType.get/setVCard()` (capitalized the "C")
 * `VCard.addExtendedType(String, String)` now builds a `RawType` instead of a `TextType`.
 * Removed the `VCardReaderBuilder` class.
 * Removed the more obscure image and sound types from `ImageTypeParameter` and `SoundTypeParameter` and added a couple new ones.
 * Removed the `Protocol` enum from the `ImppType` class and added helper methods for reading/creating handles for common IM clients (e.g. AIM and Yahoo! Messenger).

= 0.4.1 =
_October 2, 2012_

 * Tweaked POM file for inclusion in Maven Central.
 * Removed the `getType()` and `setType()` methods from the `ImppType` class.  These methods were not necessary because `ImppType` inherits from `MultiValuedTypeParameterType`.

= 0.4.0 =
_September 24, 2012_

 * Added support for [http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6473 RFC 6473] (KIND:application)
 * Added support for [http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6474 RFC 6474] (BIRTHPLACE, DEATHPLACE, DEATHDATE)
 * Added support for [http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6715 RFC 6715] (Open Mobile Alliance Converged Address Book extensions)
 * Added convenience methods to `VCard` class for reading/writing xCards.
 * Fixed bug in the RELATED property that prevented URI values from being read.
 * Multiple instances of the BDAY and ANNIVERSARY properties can now be added to the `VCard` object.  This is necessary because these properties support the ALTID parameter.

= 0.3.0 =
_September 8, 2012_

 * Added support for [http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6351 xCard] (an XML representation for vCards).
 * Added the `SkipMeException`, which can be thrown from a type class's marshal or unmarshal methods.  If thrown from a marshal method, it will prevent the property from being marshalled.  If thrown from an unmarshal method, it will prevent the type object from being added to the `VCard` object.
 * Added logic to the `EMAIL` and `TEL` properties to determine whether to use the "`TYPE=pref`" or "`PREF=1`" parameter (depending on the vCard version) when marshalling.
 * Fixed the `TYPE` parameter of the `RELATED` property so that it is (1) optional and (2) multi-valued.
 * Fixed the `GEO` property so it properly marshals/unmarshals its value for 4.0 vCards.
 * Fixed the `VCard` object so it no longer is missing getters/setters for the `GENDER` property.
 * Removed the "guava" dependency.
 * Removed the "commons-io" dependency.

= 0.2.0 =
_August 11, 2012_

 * Added support for vCard 4.0
 * Removed the space that ez-vcard added after the colon in the marshalled vCard.  This prevented some mail clients from reading the vCard (see Issue 1).
 * Values for the BEGIN, END, and PROFILE types are now in upper-case (i.e. "BEGIN:VCARD").  The 2.1/3.0 specs appear to require it to be in upper-case, so better safe than sorry (see Issue 1).
 * Fleshed out the Javadocs.

= 0.1.1 =
_July 28, 2012_

 * Removed SLF4J dependency.
 * Modified `VCard` class to only allow one UID type in accordance with the specs.
 * Binary vCard types such as PHOTO and LOGO now use the proper ENCODING value when marshalled ("base64" for 2.1 and "b" for 3.0). 
 * Renamed `DisplayableNameType` class to `SourceDisplayTextType`.
 * Renamed `OrgType` class to `OrganizationType`.

= 0.1.0 =
_July 23, 2012_

First release