#summary Archive of all past news entries.

*February 4, 2014*

[Downloads Version 0.9.2] released.  This release includes a number of bug fixes.  Please see the [Changelog changelog] for details.

*December 24, 2013*

*Happy Holidays* from the ez-vcard team!

[http://code.google.com/p/ez-vcard/downloads/list Version 0.9.1] is released.  This release adds OSGi support, internationalized warnings, and bug fixes.  See the [Changelog changelog] for more details.

We are looking for people to translate ez-vcard's parser and validation warnings into other languages.  If you are interested, please contact me at mike(dot)angstadt(at)gmail(dot)com, or submit an [https://code.google.com/p/ez-vcard/issues Issue].  The message file can be found here: https://code.google.com/p/ez-vcard/source/browse/trunk/src/main/resources/ezvcard/messages.properties

*October 25, 2013*

[http://code.google.com/p/ez-vcard/downloads/list Version 0.9.0] released.  This release adds a revamped marshalling framework and includes a significant reorganization of the API.

Existing code that uses older versions of ez-vcard will most likely break, due to the fact that many packages and classes have been renamed.  Please see the [Changelog changelog] for a list of these changes.

*October 1, 2013*

[http://code.google.com/p/ez-vcard/downloads/list Version 0.8.5] released.  This release fixes a bug dealing with "quoted-printable" property values not being folded correctly.

See the [Changelog changelog] for more details.

*September 19, 2013*

[http://code.google.com/p/ez-vcard/downloads/list Version 0.8.4] released.  This release adds a validation framework, better UTF-8 support, and a large number of other, relatively minor, changes.

See the [Changelog changelog] for a complete list of changes.

*August 4, 2013*

[http://code.google.com/p/ez-vcard/downloads/list Version 0.8.3] released.  This release adds updated jCard support and includes a host of bug fixes and other changes.

See the [Changelog changelog] for a complete list of changes.

*June 17, 2013*

[http://code.google.com/p/ez-vcard/downloads/list Version 0.8.2] released.  This release fixes an issue with Android systems where an older version of "commons-codec" would be used instead of the version that ez-vcard requires.

See the [Changelog changelog] for a complete list of changes.

*May 21, 2013*

[http://code.google.com/p/ez-vcard/downloads/list Version 0.8.1] released.  This release includes a number of miscellaneous improvements and bug fixes.

See the [Changelog changelog] for a complete list of changes.

*April 17, 2013*

[http://code.google.com/p/ez-vcard/downloads/list Version 0.8.0] released.  This release adds *support for jCard* (JSON-encoded vCards).

See the [Changelog changelog] for a complete list of changes.

*March 29, 2013*

[http://code.google.com/p/ez-vcard/downloads/list Version 0.7.3] released.  This release fixes an issue that prevented the `GEO` property from marshalling correctly under certain locales.

See the [Changelog changelog] for details.

*February 24, 2013*

[http://code.google.com/p/ez-vcard/downloads/list Version 0.7.2] released.  This release includes:

 * Support for circumflex accent encoding ([http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6868 RFC 6868])
 * Support for `KIND:device` ([http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6869 RFC 6869])
 * Bug fixes

See the [Changelog changelog] for details.

*January 17, 2013*

Released [http://code.google.com/p/ez-vcard/downloads/list Version 0.7.1] to fix a critical bug in how xCard are written.  See the [Changelog changelog] for details.

*January 13, 2013*

[http://code.google.com/p/ez-vcard/downloads/list Version 0.7.0] is the *Usability Update!*

Many changes were made to the API to make it easier to use.  Notably, a *method chaining interface* was added for parsing and writing vCards (see code samples further down the page).  Convenience methods were also added to the `VCard` class and other classes to make it easier to work with the API.  There were some bug fixes also.

See the [Changelog changelog] for a complete list of the changes in this version.

*December 12, 2012*

[http://code.google.com/p/ez-vcard/downloads/list Version 0.6.0] released.  The most notable addition in this version is support for the *[http://microformats.org/wiki/hcard hCard] microformat* (HTML-encoded vCards).

See the [Changelog changelog] for a complete list of the changes.

*November 8, 2012*

[http://code.google.com/p/ez-vcard/downloads/list Version 0.5.0] released.  Notable changes include:

  * Marshalling classes no longer throw a checked `VCardException`.
  * The XML element name of extended types can now be specified.

See the [Changelog changelog] for the other changes.

*Oct 2 2012*

ez-vcard has been released to *Maven Central*!!  Scroll down for dependency information.

*Sept 24 2012*

[http://code.google.com/p/ez-vcard/downloads/list Version 0.4.0] released.  Notably, added support for the following specifications:

  * [http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6473 RFC 6473] (KIND:application)
  * [http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6474 RFC 6474] (BIRTHPLACE, DEATHPLACE, DEATHDATE)
  * [http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6715 RFC 6715] (Open Mobile Alliance Converged Address Book extensions)

See the [Changelog changelog] for the rest of the changes.

*Sept 8 2012*

[http://code.google.com/p/ez-vcard/downloads/list Version 0.3.0] released.  Notable changes in this version include:

 * Support for the *[http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6351 xCard]* standard (an XML representation for vCards).
 * Removal of the "guava" and "commons-io" dependencies.  ez-vcard now only requires one dependency (commons-codec).

See the [Changelog changelog] for the rest of the changes.

*August 11 2012*

[http://code.google.com/p/ez-vcard/downloads/list Version 0.2.0] released.  Notably, this version adds support for *vCard version 4.0*.  See the [Changelog changelog] for more details.

*July 28 2012*

[http://code.google.com/p/ez-vcard/downloads/list Version 0.1.1] released.  See the [Changelog changelog] for details.

*July 23 2012*

[http://code.google.com/p/ez-vcard/downloads/list Version 0.1] released.  It supports vCard versions 2.1 and 3.0.
